eight things that are ruining your
e-commerce sales the beauty of
e-commerce is that there are already
lots of techniques and hacks that have
been tested to exhaustion by other
companies so you don't need to spend all
the time figuring out hey what are the
things that you need to do to make
things work and what are the things that
are going to hurt your ecommerce store
today i'm going to go over a few things
that i've tried and tested and hacks
that you can use to start improving your
conversions and recover thousands of
dollars in lost revenue mistake number
one not optimizing for mobile according
to otterbox
during the first month of 2021 79 of
smartphone users purchase something
online at least once and beyond that 80
percent of shoppers use a mobile phone
inside a physical store to either look
up product reviews compare prices or
find alternative store locations mistake
number two low quality product photos
only point five two percent of consumers
want to see a single product photo while
33.16 percent prefer to have opportunity
to browse through multiple photos
according to shopify studies on consumer
preferences
mistake number three not using social
proof to your advantage the majority of
people read online reviews and a
whopping 93 of consumers say the reviews
influence our purchasing decision so
make sure that you're encouraging people
to leave reviews as well whether they're
good or bad and when you have bad ones
don't just be defensive be like no
you're wrong instead learn from them
make your product better so that way
your reviews over time could really
improve
mistake number four not staying in touch
with customers and leads let me ask you
this leave a comment below letting me
know how often you email your existing
customers the reason i want to know this
is if you're not emailing often your
existing customer list is getting cold
you're not staying in touch you won't
make as much money we all know that
email marketing is the key for
e-commerce success you need to stay in
touch with them but sms marketing seems
to be lacking in most businesses sms
comes with impressive 98 open rates and
is one of the most responsive marketing
channels in general the same applies to
chat bots and platforms like whatsapp
and facebook messenger where you get a
chance to give users a more personalized
experience as they go about choosing
products and communicating with your
brand
mistake number five failing to improve
your average order value you may think
that the secret to e-commerce success is
acquiring new customers and that's
perfectly fine but focusing on
increasing the purchase value that each
customer makes on your website can drive
amazing results to understand the value
of this you need to look at the cost for
your marketing efforts for each new
customer for example say your site
attracts three customers that each spend
twenty dollars this will cost your
business more than having one customer
spending sixty dollars increasing the
average order value will make a major
difference to the overall profitability
of your company and google ads have
continually gone up in cost including
the 2008 recession and even when covert
hit so you need to have your upsells and
downsells and using speed and automation
is a great way to do that right so
anything that gives people the result
faster or with less work causes more
sales and increase the average order
value mistake number six bad product
descriptions your product description
should explain to your audience why they
need your product you need to sell it
if you're on selling in your description
you're making a mistake you should also
include information on how your product
can benefit them so it's not just about
describing features but also making sure
that users understand transformational
impact that your product will have on
their lives
mistake number seven poor on-site search
experience have you ever tried to find a
product on a website and you see a list
of completely irrelevant results well
it's pretty frustrating isn't it on-site
search should serve results according to
the user's on-site behavior in a way
that gives them the most relevant
results possible using autocomplete also
to help them get the product that they
want faster so they don't have to type
everything in as well and most good
e-commerce platforms have this built in
mistake number eight complex checkout
experience look if you put a lot of
obstacles in front of your shoppers in
order for them to complete their
purchases
your conversions are gonna tank i
recommend that you also add paypal as a
checkout option with shopify you know
there's a shop pay that also helps boost
conversions but everything that we
tested with e-commerce when people don't
use paypal their conversions aren't as
good so many e-commerce users use paypal
as a checkout option and what we've seen
is when you include it as a payment
option you usually get somewhere around
an 18 increase in revenue you should
test it out for yourself but it's a
massive win if you need help with your
ecommerce company check out my ad agency
np digital where we help people grow
their traffic if you have any questions
leave a comment below we're here to help
you out